{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Quicksand-Medium;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What is MET?
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The metabolic equivalent of task (MET) has been used since 2000 to compare the energy consumption of different activities. It is a description of a person's metabolic rate in relation to his resting metabolic rate. "1 MET hour" ("MET" for short) is the energy consumption that you have awake in peace within an hour. All other activities then consume a certain multiple of this rest consumption. Running at 6 mph", which corresponds to 9.8 METs, for example, consumes 9.8 times as much energy as sitting. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\qc\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 How does MET help me?
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Sport helps to reduce the risk of cancer. At MET Tracker we rely on the latest scientific studies. For 13 cancers it is considered highly likely that the risk of developing them can be reduced through sport. It has been shown, for example, that it is more effective to move with moderate intensity 15 minutes a day than three times a week with high intensity. The general risk of dying of cancer decreases by 13 - 22 percent, and that already from 9 MET per week!\
At MET Tracker, we can't promise you anything - although we'd love to! that you will be spared cancer if you are regularly active. However, we can assure you that you will do the best for your health if you do sports!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\qc\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 How exactly does exercise work against cancer?
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Abdominal fat appears to occupy a key position in the development of cancer. Similar to chronic inflammation, it sends inflammatory mediators and other messenger substances through the body. The fat cells act on the insulin and sugar metabolism, the immune system and the hormone metabolism. The sent out inflammatory messengers promote the development of cancer. \
Muscle cells, on the other hand, produce a protein called SPARC. This is made in the recovery phase. The SPARC molecule emitted by muscle cells can prevent cells from turning into cancer cells. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\qc\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 How should I train?
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Before you start, make sure you have a sports medical check-up and get individual recommendations as to which sports are suitable for you and in what intensity. If possible, they train in groups or as instructors.\
As a general recommendation, a total of 2.5 hours of endurance training and strength training for the large muscle groups twice a week should be carried out each week. From 65 years you should also include balance exercises and fall prophylaxis in the training. In any case: the more training the better! But also: rather move more often and shorter with moderate intensity than rarely and with high intensity. And don't forget: even activities such as mowing the lawn or working in the barn count as movement!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\qc\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 I have performed an activity but cannot find it in the dropdown list?
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The MET values we use in our app are based on the findings of more than 260 studies [1], and more are added annually. They are taken from the Ainsworth table ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://sites.google.com/site/compendiumofphysicalactivities/"}}{\fldrslt https://sites.google.com/site/compendiumofphysicalactivities/}}), which brings together all MET value determinations carried out so far. \
The MET value has not yet been determined for many sports and activities. We adjust the table regularly when new studies contribute new studies. If your activity or sport is not yet covered, we recommend that you look for a similar or similarly strenuous activity in the activities. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\qc\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Breast cancer prophylaxis 
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Studies have been conducted since the 1990s to investigate - and prove - the connection between breast cancer and sport! Women who have been active in sports all their lives have the lowest risk of illness. The studies suggest that more sport "helps more". Women who have gone through the menopause, are of normal weight and exercise for 2-3 hours a week benefit in particular. If 18 MET or more per week is achieved through exercise, the risk of developing breast cancer may be reduced by 25 - 30%. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\qc\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 I have breast cancer
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The influence of exercise can reduce the risk of recurrence by 40 - 50 percent. For example, if you walk 3 - 5 hours a week. In studies, women who diagnosed with about 8-9 MET per week were able to improve the prognosis by about 20 percent. If more than 9 MET were reached, the forecast even improved by up to 50 percent! Other drugs have to do that first...!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\qc\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Intestinal cancer
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \ul \ulc0 Prophylaxis\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone \
Sport can also have a decisive preventive effect in colorectal cancer. With more than 21 MET per week, women can reduce their risk of getting sick by 16-21 percent and men by 20-24 percent. In one study, men who did more than seven hours of exercise a week were even able to reduce their risk by up to 40 percent. It did not matter how much sport they had done before the observation period, the decisive factor was how much sport they did during the observation period. Sport therefore has a direct protective effect on the intestines. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\qc\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 I have colon cancer
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Sport can reduce the risk of colon cancer deaths by 39 percent, even if lymph nodes are already affected. In colorectal cancer, the prognosis improves significantly if more than 18 MET per week are reached, namely by 47 percent! At around 10 MET per week, the risk reduction is still 28 percent.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\qc\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Prostate cancer
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \ul Prophylaxis\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone \
The data for the possibilities of preventing prostate cancer through sport are not entirely clear. However, the influence of recreational sports on prostate cancer does not seem to be particularly great and is likely to be 5 - 10 percent risk reduction. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\qc\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 I have prostate cancer
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 In contrast to prevention, there are excellent chances for patients with prostate cancer to reduce their risk of relapse! Already from 9 MET per week the risk is reduced by 30 percent, with more than 15 MET even by 50 percent!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\qc\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Lung cancer
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \ul Prophylaxis\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone \
Lung cancer seems to benefit men in particular, regardless of whether they are moderately or intensively active in sports. Men can reduce their risk of contracting the disease by 50 percent, women by as much as 30 percent. Intensive exercise seems to be more beneficial for lung cancer than moderate exercise intensity. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\qc\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 I have lung cancer
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Unfortunately, there are no adequate studies on the impact of recreational sports on the disease prognosis after lung cancer. However, the patients who regularly participated in the sports programme were significantly better off in the study groups. They had less depression, anxiety and symptoms of fatigue syndrome. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\qc\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Ovarian cancer
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \ul Prophylaxis\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone \
The preventive effect of ovarian cancer has not been proven, but there are many indications that athletic women can reduce their personal risk by 30-60 percent. And if you do get sick, you have a much better prognosis if you have done a lot of sport at the age of 18 - 30. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\qc\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 I have ovarian cancer
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Unfortunately, the possibilities of reducing the risk of recurrence in ovarian cancer have not yet been sufficiently investigated. Overall, however, sport seems to have little influence on the course of ovarian cancer. However, obesity and smoking have a clearly negative influence on the probability of recurrence.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf2 [1] Vezina J, Whitt-Glover MC, Leon AS: 2011 Compendium of Physical Activities: a second update of codes and MET values. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2011, 43(8):1575-1581.}