{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs38 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
This is a RATHER SCARY STORY. Children and adults might be a touch frightened by Natasha\'92s rendering of the wicked witch who wants to cook little Hansel and Gretel. But they will also be enraptured by Hansel and Gretel\'92s ingenuity as they triumph over evil.\cb1 \
\cb3 This version of the classic story by The Brothers Grimm is from the Blue Fairy Book of Andrew Lang, published in 1889.\cb1 \
\cb3 Proofread by Claire Deakin. Read by Natasha. Duration 23 minutes.\cb1 \
\
\
\cb3 ONCE upon a time there dwelled on the outskirts of a large forest a poor woodcutter with his wife and two children; the boy was called Hansel, and the girl Gretel. He always had little enough to live on, and once, when times were bad, they had to get by with one piece of bread and butter each. One night, as he was tossing about in bed, full of cares and worry, he sighed and said to his wife, \'93What\'92s to become of us? How are we to feed our poor children, now that we have nothing more for ourselves?\'94\cb1 \
\cb3 \'93I\'92ll tell you what, husband,\'94 answered the woman, \'93early tomorrow morning we\'92ll take the children out into the thickest part of the wood. There we shall light a fire for them and give them each a piece of bread; then we\'92ll go on to our work and leave them alone. They won\'92t be able to find their way home, and we shall be rid of them.\'94\cb1 \
\cb3 \'93No, wife,\'94 said her husband, \'93that I won\'92t do; how could I find it in my heart to leave my children alone in the wood? The wild beasts would soon come and tear them to pieces.\'94\cb1 \
\cb3 \'93Oh! You fool,\'94 said she, \'93then we must all four die of hunger, and you may just as well go and saw the boards for our coffins.\'94 They argued and argued, until he agreed that they must get rid of Hansel and Gretel. \'93But I can\'92t help feeling sorry for the poor children,\'94 added the husband.\cb1 \
\cb3 The children, too, had not been able to sleep for hunger, and had heard what their stepmother had said to their father. Gretel wept bitterly and spoke to Hansel, \'93Now it\'92s all up with us.\'94\cb1 \
\cb3 \'93No, no, Gretel,\'94 said Hansel, \'93don\'92t fret yourself; I\'92ll be able to find a way to escape, no fear.\'94 When the old people had fallen asleep he got up, slipped on his little coat, opened the back door and stole out. The moon was shining clearly, and the white pebbles which lay in front of the house glittered like bits of silver. Hansel bent down and filled his pocket with as many of them as he could cram in. Then he went back and said to Gretel, \'93Be comforted, my dear little sister, and go to sleep. God will not desert us,\'94 and he lay down in bed again.\cb1 \
\cb3 At daybreak, even before the sun was up, the woman came and woke the two children, \'93Get up, you lie-abeds, we\'92re all going to the forest to fetch wood.\'94 She gave them each a bit of bread and said, \'93There\'92s something for your luncheon, but don\'92t you eat it up beforehand, for it\'92s all you\'92ll get.\'94 Gretel took the bread under her apron, as Hansel had the stones in his pocket. Then they all set out together on the way to the forest. After they had walked a little, Hansel stood still and looked back at the house, and this manoeuvre he repeated again and again. His father observed him, and said, \'93Hansel, what are you gazing at there? Why do you always remain behind? Take care, and don\'92t lose your footing.\'94\cb1 \
\cb3 \'93Oh! father,\'94 said Hansel, \'93I am looking back at my white kitten, which is sitting on the roof, waving me a farewell.\'94\cb1 \
\cb3 The woman exclaimed, \'93What a donkey you are! That isn't your kitten, that\'92s the morning sun shining on the chimney.\'94 But Hansel had not looked back at his kitten, but had always dropped one of the white pebbles out of his pocket on to the path.\cb1 \
\cb3 When they had reached the middle of the forest the father said, \'93Now children, go and fetch a lot of wood, and I\'92ll light a fire that you may not feel cold.\'94 Hansel and Gretel heaped up brushwood until they had made a pile nearly the size of a small hill. The brushwood was set fire to, and when the flames leaped high the woman said, \'93Now lie down at the fire, children, and rest yourselves: We are going into the forest to cut down wood, and when we've finished we\'92ll come back and fetch you.\'94}